Now we need to look at permissions.
There are three types of permissions on a limbic system, and these apply to both files and directories
read, write and execute.
They are abbreviated with R, W, X, all lowercase.
A permission value that is displayed with a hyphen is an indication of the user having no permissions
in that context.
Let's look at what permissions allow a user to do.
Read, write and execute.
Permissions differ with files and directories.
Let's look at files first.
Having a read permission on a file allows a user to view the contents of that file.
Having right permissions on a file allows a user to modify and delete files.
Having execute permissions on a file allows a user to execute the file.
If it is a program or script.
When it comes to directorate's, you have the same three permissions.
But because we are now working with a directory, it will differ.
Read permissions on a directory will allow a user to view the contents of a directory.
Having right permissions allows a user to write into that directory right into a directory, allows
you to create new files in that directory as well as create subdirectories execute permissions when
referring to directories will allow a user to enter that particular directory.
Previously we looked at the c.D Change Directory Command.
If a user does not have execute permissions on a directory, you can not change to that directory.
Here we have the listing of our Ingenix directory.
There are two entries I would like to look at Ingenix Dot Seo in F.
If we look at the identifier on the extreme left, it is a hyphen indicating it is a file further down
sites available.
The identifier on the extreme left is a D indicating sites available is a directory.
It's look at Ingenix dot C in F first three characters or W hyphen belong to the owner.
The second three characters are hyphen.
Hyphen belong to the group owner.
The last three characters are often hyphen belong to other users.
Looking at the first three are W hyphen, the owner is root.
So what would the user root be able to do to that file?
What permissions does the user have on the Ingenix not SEO in a file?
It allows the user to view the contents of the file.
That is the read permission.
It allows the user to modify the file.
That is the right permission.
The hyphen indicates the user has no execute permissions on that file.
Let's look at what the group can do to that file.
The owner is the route group.
What can the group do?
They can view the contents of that file and nothing else.
The route group do not have permissions to write or execute, so anyone who's part of the route group
can only view the contents of that for the last three characters belongs to all other users, a user
who is not part of the group and users who did not create the file.
The route user created the file so all other users can only view the contents of that file.
Let's look at sites available, the identifiers telling us it is a directory.
Who is it owned by Root.
So the root user created that directory.
Who is the group owner?
It is root.
What can the root user do in that directory?
Read, write and execute.
So what the root user can do is read the contents of that directory, create files or subdirectories
inside that directory as well as enter that directory.
Executable permissions are important when it comes to directories.
Unless a directory has executable permissions, you cannot enter that directory.
What can the group do with the sites available directly to the group owner is root, so any member of
that group can list the contents?
That is our read permission and they can enter the directory.
It has executable permission.
They cannot create any files or subdirectories inside the sites available directory all other users
on the system.
They have read and execute permissions so they can list the contents of the directory and they can enter
the directory.
They cannot create files.
They cannot create subdirectories.
They cannot delete any files unless you have right permissions inside a directory.
You cannot delete anything.